---
title: "01.17.25"
---

after chatting with my dad about stagnation in his career below md level, i am thinking again about where i want to be 1) when im 30 and 2) when im 60 and how to get there.
what technical skills do i want to build on? 
* data visualization
* data science/processing/engineering 
* powershell 
what technical skills do i want to explore?
* langchain 

**technical inquiries**
* data visualization of writing patterns & prose 
	* practice continuous data processing & data visualization & chat interface 
	* mvp version: data visualization of obsidian notes (connected to my graphs)
	* *how has my writing practice evolved? what concepts/metaphors/ideas constantly come up? where do i derive inspiration from? how can i connect these dots into my next story?*
	* e.g. itll surface concepts of "creative inertia" often 
	* what sentiments do my notes reflect? 
*  data visualizations of strava running
	* api -> mcp -> generate how many miles i run
* emotion-based - using hume api to analyze my meeting recording files and giving me feedback
* computational poetry 
* telescopic writning
* linguistics x ai 
	* how Ai has sparked a linguistics battle
	* *how can we engage ai in understanding and unpacking our understanding of language?*
	* what chomsky thinks of ai 
[[reboot application answers]]
could be react websites, could just be essays i display on my page 


random rabbit holes:
1. What advancements have been made in AI for texture?
	1. Can AI *feel*? like, literally? textures 
	2. What is an abstract analogue to the "texture" of a conversation - is it emotion? 
2. What advances in science have been made for empathetic AI? What are its applications? What other companies are in this space (im assuming Inworld AI)
3. How do we use levels of abstractions in theory (in writing, UI/UX) and irl (using an electric car instead of a car)? What words are remnants of our use cases pre-abstraction?
4. **What is my stance on AGI / AI advancement? ** Its implications on power? literally & metaphorically? Geopolitical power
	1. AI & Power Distributions 
5. Rules - what are the rules in technology that I can investigate