---
title: "01.24.25"
---

went back to new jersey to celebrate moms bday and learn how to make dumplings
dumpling recipe

#1. prepare the cabbage
- fill up a pot with water and dunk leaves of white napa
- squeeze out the water using paper towels. feel the juice and water squirm on your hands.
- use a long slender knife to dice the cabbage
	- i learned how to do this in middle school when they made me work in the cafeteria, mom told me. mom was sent to middle school - 8 rmb per month. her dad asked to borrow boarding money. her mom couldnt read or write but stressed the importance of education
	- whoever make dumpling will give to each other
- she chides me for the rekless way i cut. fold your fingers inwards and dice it quickly. or if you want to do it the other way - she holds the knife by its base and begins hacking
	- it makes a nice sound. is ther a sound for this in chinese? um. just like qie qie qie
#2 combine w ground chicken
* no one else is using organic chicken like this, my mom says proudly. i dump it into the pot and wrinkle my nose at the side - never quite visually accustomed to the brain-like texture of ground chicken. she hands me a chopstick. *start stirring* i do it hesitantly, kindly, respectful of this dead chicken which was processed a second time and now a third time by my hand. she cracks a golden-yolked egg and spoons some chicken builloin. wow, this is like, some *triple chicken action. is there a word for this?* i ask earnestly, thinking of oyakodon. "san bei ji?" 
* she laughs and grabs the chopsticks and stirs at a speed 3x my own. the mystery meat becomes luscious, almost appetizing thanks to the (whats a word for the liquid part of an egg yolk. amniotic fluid?) 

#3 aromatics
* quick chop some scallion and throw that it in. i marvel at the scent of fresh green onion, a stark cry from the wilted leftovers i threw in my egg mush the night before. it's pungent and clear and addicting. 
* pour some wine, the xiaoxing kind, on top of the green-speckled mush. *gets rid of the meat smell. i went to 99 ranch after a week of being sick and i could immediately smell the oil around me. it made me sick.* her tongue is attuned to this meat smell in a way mine isnt. 
* *a long,* she asks dad, whos doing kalisthentics while watching chinese tv via roku - should we add sesame oil? of course.
* finally, dash of white pepper and salt. *not too much salt - this is what the sauce is for*
* admire your work. final state of chicken mush. in another world this is forbidden tartare, some delectable component of omakase. resist the urge to taste - this is what a test dumpling is for.
#4 technique
* one year we made homemade skin and i watched someone push their livelihood into the flour while every ingrate clutched their stomach and complained of hunger. *better to use store-bought instead. it's the north that makes their skin fresh.*
* *you want to da zhi. make it da zhi.* *da zhi... like.. da "straight"?* *no, no like fold it*.
* set up your assembly line: meat, skin, a small cup of water. place the wrapper on your hand, spoon a little bit of meat filling. take two fingers and wet it before tracing the edges of the circular skin. fold in half and pinch: think of pleating or pie crust as you press into the gluten on the edges and push another part of wrapper on top, repeating all the way through.  
* the name shui jiao belies the cooking technique - just dump it in some water, right? 
* not quite. mom starts boiling water and explains - when the water boils, add dumplings in, then add cold water, then boil water again, then add water again, then wait for it to boil, then take it out.
* wait what? can you say it again? 
* she complies and i sweat by the sweating pot. sweat sisters. i follow the instructions, despite my bleek context window. in the final stage the dumpling rises.
she sends me back with the meat filling and wrappers (in a freezer tight bag, dw) and i hobble onto the nj transit. there's also a gift of homemade wontons - *this is what we actually eat in shanghai.* i've already tried some of her wontons recently, when she was away and clutching my stomach in hunger i slurped up parcel after parcel, eyes swimming with the taste. 