---
title: "2025-06-20"
---

apply to factor fellowship
**Startups require employees to take ownership over entire initiatives, often with limited guidance and resources. Tell us about a time when you’ve led a complex project start to finish.**

**Successful startup employees identify problems and take steps to address them, even if that problem falls outside of their job description. Describe a situation in which you’ve identified a problem or opportunity outside of your core responsibilities and took the initiative to fix it.**

**Startups move quickly, which means that operators must be comfortable making decisions with limited or incomplete information. Tell us about a time when you had to make a decision with limited information and guidance.**

**Startups are not for the faint of heart. You are presented with numerous obstacles and challenges on a daily basis that you will be expected to overcome. Tell us about a time when you’ve had to overcome significant obstacles in pursuing a goal**

One of the most rewarding aspects of working at a startup is the opportunity to build something new, innovative, and significant from scratch. In that vein, tell us about one of your proudest accomplishments.

**Please keep each answer to 1 or 2 paragraphs.**

**The NYC startup landscape is highly dynamic and changes in real time. Every day, new companies are launching, while others are closing their doors. Based on what you know about the startup ecosystem, what industries and companies would you want to explore further during the fellowship


general weekly reflection 
- justin shared that hes been facing a baseline level of low energy and anxiety and slight depression and that's been clouding his judgement in terms of brain fog -> catalyzing him to switch up his weekly routine 
- an and i talked about vibe coding and match making 
- ryan laid out the entirety of the startup scen efor me and the assertion that if theres a job out there you can get a job in a startup 
	- and there are no real roles at a startup 
- cat zhao shared that her view is that class + the way you are brought up is important to how you get along with ppl - reaffirmed that the average conversation in new york is not scintillating
- 
