---
title: "2025-06-23"
---

summer goals:
1. submit to in the margins 
2. if i dont leave for scale - lean into data observability
	1. learn how to build 
	2. learn how to sell


creative projects: 
- explore datasets in supercomputing 
- 
arvind:
Two competing narratives: (1) there's too much AI hype (2) society is being too dismissive and complacent about AI progress. I think both have a kernel of truth. In fact, they feed off of each other.  
  
The key to the paradox is that going from AI capabilities to economic impacts requires:  
- creating useful products that bridge the capability-reliability gap caused by the flakiness of LLMs  
- user learning curves  
- changes to organizational structures and in some cases business models  
... and a lot more. Most of this will happen at the speed of social change, not technological change (the core message of my recent writing with [](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ACoAABcUwhcBonpIcJGHb5myljtrph39LjcIsE4)[Sayash Kapoor](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ksayash/)).


nvlink respon for 40% 
flaps resposible for 30% crashes

renaud wants to see incremental improvements with every update
dont be defensive
create that feedbackloop
when customer is leaning forward - usullmans theyre not comfy
- what was our target and what did we actually do
- when would we get 50% to 75% capacity

how long firmware update - 
can we reduce it from X time to X time
progressive improvements

awesome to have a slide before we do organized planned maintenance
what have we been doing
put like phase 1 2 3 
northstar
target is 2 hours
put something like that before
and continuously show the customer
rory used to only be involved in future supercomputers
tomorrow - say somethign to the effect 
by tmrw afternoon we would have handed over capacity
hey oai - we're gonna bring a retro to u guys on thursday where we talk about what went well and what can be improved
somethings we learned
document - great learning tool to understand what planned maintenance

flagging that oai offered us capacity



alex + reza involved in current operational systems
renaud joined the team not too long ago
renaud is responsible for fairwater 


reflection

see around the corner

  
 

**Guidelines:**

- **Cover Letter:** Your cover letter should include a biography of up to 60 words and a description up to 150 words on why you chose your particular engagement with Lineages.
- **Poetry**: Submit any number of poems totaling no more than six pages. Each poem must start on a new page.
- **Art/graphic work**: Please submit up to six pages of work with enough detail that we can read the text in JPG, GIF, PNG, or PDF files.
- If you are submitting translations, please acquire translation and publication permission from the author and/or press prior to submission. Please submit both the original piece and the translation.
- Please use a standard serif (e.g., Constantia, Garamond, Times New Roman) or sans-serif font (e.g., Arial, Calibri) in font size no smaller than 12, unless there is a specific formal and visual reason to do otherwise.
- We prefer submissions in the .docx form but also accept PDFs.
- We allow simultaneous submissions. If a part of your submitted manuscript has been accepted elsewhere, please send a message with the unavailable title(s) on Submittable. If your entire manuscript becomes unavailable, please withdraw the submission.

Writers can expect a reply within three to four months after the submission period closes.

We pay all writers and translators. Please refer to our [rate sheet](https://aaww.org/the-margins-rates/) for details.