---
title: "2025-08-27"
---


I take a sip of my cocktail and have my little reflexive shiver. I look around and feel the straight edges on the tables are a little curvier, the walls boundaries beginning to blend. Cupping my glass, I take a deep breath in of the smoke-laden air. Blow out imaginary rings tinged with bitter tobacco. **I wonder if part of growing up is realizing adult pleasures are just the ones mixed in with pain.**

I hear my friend through the bar chatter and remember to look back at him. "What do you think went wrong?"

She just didn't want to be in a relationship with me, I say.

I've been surprised how little drama there has been. A relationship ended decisively, like a cleaver decapitating a snake.

What have yours been like? I ask.

He's been good. They ended a few months ago because she felt she didn't have a community where they were living. He was sad, but he moved on ok. Found new hobbies -- Surfing, drawing. It hasn't affected him that much.

He's perfectly happy living his life now, alone. And I realize I'm not. I'm really not.

I take a breath in and hold it, trying to fill the emptiness in my core with some air, trying to tamponade the despair leaking out of my heart. Until the breath lets itself out.

I take another sip, and shiver. Now the alcohol's flowing freely and so are my thoughts.

When she told me, as I was coming off a hard medicine block preparing for the next day's clinic, I just sat back. With a feeling of disgust. What a cruel world. We work so hard to find a sliver of happiness and then the world just shatters our dreams to pieces.

I'm back to that lonely version of me during the pandemic. Looking at my friends get busier and busier. I was so desperate to find connection. The problem, I decided, was me. No one deserves intimacy. You gotta earn it.

I was hard on myself. And now I'm crying to clips of Everything Everywhere All At Once. Seeing Waymond fight for a relationship to work, just like he was fighting for the fabric of the universe....]to stay together. With just kindness and earnestness, but it never got appreciated. How Chinese men are there, deeply present and reliable, but they're never the star. They never get the girl.

I wake up the next day and decide I'm past that.

Another sip takes me to some pineapple flavored Asian beers. Sipping these after steak and baked potatoes (it was bomb). Wih my cousin and her husband, happily married, helping me believe I'll get through this.

And another sip takes me to the red wine left in my solo cup, notes evaporating into the cool summer night. I'm with my friends chatting under mood lighting while tri tip and chicken grill and tacos are savored. I delve into my friends' light gossip and they check in on me in between. I smell incense, a new smell, as guitar music plays, reminding me there's more dimensions to this life.

And another sip takes me to Plum soju, chilling me out as I'm on my friend's warm couch. Hearing his stories of leaning into the sadness, the hurt. The emotions, man... The superficial stuff fades but the emotions and the relationship? You gotta carry that grief.

And now I breathe in again the thick cigarette smoke, back in the bar. Inhale the hurt. Then exhale.

We're chatting again. What went wrong? It's easy for us to talk about the constraints. Living near each other. Having similar life plans. Agreeing in values, finances, on kids.

But the core, that intuitive love. Is something I'll never capture, never define, never diagnose. Another bull bucking me hard as I hang on, trying to tame it. But it launched me off and tramples me, gores me, yet again.

Maybe it's better this way.

I grip my glass and look at my friend and proclaim, as if I'm on my desthbed: "I'd do it all over again. I have no regrets."

"For a chance at Love ? Always. Love... Love is everything. Everything! It's all that life's about."

We lean back and keep talking, probing at love, puzzling over relationships, like we're kids enamored with the smoky air, playing in it, grasping at it, trying to catch just a wisp in our hands.

-
kv caching is a way to cache the attention by storing in a separate window
prompt caching is a way o store 