---
title: "2025-06-11"
---

reflection today
clearly i am very upset bc waht is abundantly obvious to my peers and boyfriend is less obvious to me being in the situation 
i dont actually know what to do all day

what sort of work energizes me?
nitins questions: 
- do you feel ilke you're contributing to society? do you fee sharp? 
why are you not happy about this job? 
i feel listless

if i stay at microsoft:
- stay until september
- start recruiting again for pm ii (?) roles elsewhee
what doesnt change:
general existentialism / unhappiness with work 
general ennui


What should be important:
1. ur working on product work, not just tpm work
2. it's a greenfield opportunity that can really expand into anything
3. i will work hard, for once in my life 

the question is - how much do i want to leave?
meeting up with other microsoft pms at a recruiting event validated that some of my anxiety over wanting to leave is seeing others leave - for some reason i want to do things before other people leave. 


i feel deeply disconnected from my work life. i have nothing to do except sit on syncs i dont need to speak on, lead meetings that people dont attend, write documents that people dont read. my real value prop is creating a schedule that guides which updates go where. 


from november: ughughughugh i feel this constant battle of 1) im not doing enough or living up to my potential and 2)  i need to give myself grace and work within the structure that im placed within 
how do i reckon that institutions are set in their own ways? 
i dont rly have a growth mindset at microsoft -- i feel very stifled and confused on where to go when i think about it
* mitra thinks that im too junior to actually drive anything -> so i act as if i dont have any power to drive anything -> im stressed before even
how do i define ambition in the workplace?
- i ask my manager for more work and i'm told to slow down. there's a fine line between wanting to rush ahead vs staying within the guard rails of big tech. i'm in fact probably lucky that my previous internships have all been self-driven and highly ownable, which almost makes the reality blow harder. 
- am i running on the hedonic treadmill/rat race? or am i settling for complacency? 
- * i feel a pressure to succeed to a level past my dad, who capped out at md. i understand that growth at a structured company isn't guaranteed, esp as a female asian in the workplace. in microsoft i dont see myself climbing to the top, as the people on my team are older yet only a few levels higher.

* is working for microsoft in gpus what im truly passionate about? 
what future joy are you delaying
with your current life?
i dont know 
this trip is going to make me re-evaluate how i feel about my job

    Thinking about whether to leave your job is uncomfortable in a few different ways: it involves acknowledging that you made a poor decision in the past (taking your current job) that wasted a bunch of time; it involves signing up for a bunch more difficult, stressful work to interview at new jobs; and it saps your motivation to invest in getting better at your current job if you think it’s likely that you’ll leave soon. So it’s understandable that people procrastinate on staring into that abyss. But that procrastination leads to a lot of avoidable suffering

* i wouldnt outwardly call myself ambitious, but as someone constantly striving 
* we are people who are looking for our **life's work** -- before we get to our magnus opus is a series of failed pivots 
* i'm looking for the thing that will define my career

that day i was walking jainil's dog with mahesh, he asked me when i felt on top of the world from a career high. honestly, i didnt have anything to say from my internships/job, but the first image that came to mind was when i was hosting events in high school and post-grad: the hackathon i incepted in junior high school, bookbear matchmaking event, picnic. i'm still searching for that  high, where i feel like i create something out of nothing and it actually has impact. the scope doesn't even have to be that big -- something like event planning is localized to the people i know.



report out how the testson schedule

whenthis thing kicks off 

they only care about when they get capacit back

target:60% after 2 1/2 days

see if we hit that target

how was plannnedmaintenancedone before
now and the future
how to make sure the paper is well used

planning and unique
master document
openaiplanned maintenance consists of this
big bible in that
fw and os 
mana 
nic update
whatsinvolved
whos responsible
order to thesethings
fw at bare melal
nvlink switch updates
manualrebootingofthe nodes
in order to save time
we do compute update and nvlink at the same time
sometimes we need amys team always avail
when they do a swtich update and theres a problem they need to reboot all nodes
map physical nodes to swtich
can organize and ask question

document how we build how we build a supercomputer
shrink time to build a sc fom months to week


how do you know when something is the right decision to make? 

obviously i will never truly know. there is no decision handed to me on a silver platter.  
do i stand for complacency and an easy path to promotion at my current job? or do i feel the impatience to jump and move to another startup at this very moment? 

who is the person i want to be versus the person i am today? i want to leave but the actual logistics behind launch feel weighty. 

am i waffling on this decision because it feels hard? or because it feels wrong? 
if i back out on my decision now i have to be completely sure that this is not the right fit for me at this moment. there is a knot within my chest constantly tightening the more i deliberate this. i hate this liminal space between microsoft and scale, in which im not sure how i feel about this opportunity and constantly dawdle. 

the delusion is: commitment is a thing that you feel. The truth is: commitment is a thing that you make.

This is why commitment architecture is a skill. It requires a deep understanding of just how far you can push yourself, and you can only get that through experimenting over time.

forcing functions need to have two things to work: real accountability, and real consequences.
The idea is that making changes in your life, especially when learning new skill sets, requires you to cross a moat of low status, a period of time where you are actually bad at the thing or fail to know things that are obvious to other people.

-> is going to scale a moat of low status? eating shit just to learn something and grow into someone stronger? 
-> theres also no need to take a job if i think im going to hate it 
--> am i going to hate it? am i unnecessarily harsh on myself? what do i do? 

a truth is that i find it difficult to commit to something. and especially difficult to make hard decisions. and decision paralysis is something that is truly, wholly, numbing. i will never know if making x decision over y will be good for me, but maybe there is only one way to try. i will never know if im making a quote unquote "mistake" by choosing one thing over the other. people will tell you that you've made mistakes and i wont know how to respond. 

what do i currently do at microsoft? i spend very little time working, and a lot of time sitting in meetings and soaking in information. 

what do i ideally want to be doing? i like getting things to do and driving towards outcomes. maybe this career is just not for me if i don't have anything to do. truth be told this job is so easy for me and maybe a little crazy i just landed it for doing nothing. i got a promotion and i didn't even have to try. 

should i keep living life this way? 

what is my happiness equation? it's obviously the richness of life that comes from trying new foods, hosting events, writing, etc. 

questions i need to clarify but perhaps will not really clarify anything:
1. what does working on an evals product entail?
2. what is my pov on evals as a product in general? 
3. how will this change with the potential meta partnership? 
4. is scale still a good company to join? 
5. could i still go into a startup if i stay at microsoft for one more year? 
6. what kind of work experience do i want to have? 
7. what can i learn at scale under john vs microsoft under aditya? 

several self-truths:
1. i am looking for the moment/thing that's going to define my career/se
[[content/2025-06-11|2025-06-11]]
[[content/6-30 reflection|6-30 reflection]]

i remember rushing through my food at the dinner table. picking at the tender slices of hong xiao ruo coaxed with my mother's love, shoveling rice down my throat in anticipation of something so much more important to get back to - my interrupted google chats or rotting calculus homework and the like. 

it's late at night and parents come by the apartment, wielding tupperware containers of fresh food from home. we perch atop hightop chairs and a mini circular table to eat the goods. 

as the story goes he came to new york at 23 with only $100 in his pocket. my mom saw how big the pints of hagen daz were here and her eyes bulged into saucers, inciting unlucky stomachache on her first day here. 

*my vision swims when i look at the computer,* he admits, idly peeling a clementine onto a plate full of bones. i can't keep up with you young folk. 

my vision swims as he goes on and on, telling me how proud he is of me, unconsciously pressing wedges of orange into my hands. *im getting old these days* and i swallow the need to say *you used to say older, why are you saying old now?*

god. all i want to do is make these people proud. these people who pray for my successes over the dinner table, long after my seat has vacated, hands pressed in service of a fish, wishing on a wishbone they pluck and hope that it breaks. 

the bloodline of a fish is referred to as a thin strip of muscular tissue that runs down its lateral. a thin bloodline means the fish bled properly - a thick one indicates that it died on the line.

our family loves fish and we serve it whole, in all its unkempt glory - fins and tail still attached, big bulging fish eye staring back at you, glassy in its mortality. this time in japan we were able to fish for our own dinner and we did it with glee, peering over the glass to see which prize we would take home. but it came served to us with perfectly packaged. 

at 23 my dad immigrated to the upper west side, north of 76th street, for his masters class in the city. he never went to classes because he had to pay back the accumulating student debt - so he hopped on his bike to deliver asian food up and down manhattan. 

at 23 i sit at the bottom of manhattan, where riches pool at the feet.

any friend who visits my apartment comments that it feels very *lived in.* almost chinese. the wash of secondhand mahagony wood and chinese spoons. 

there's so much of the world they haven't yet explored. such few days they've spent in china - with such few vacation days, they spent all of them taking me to cool western places, dubai, italy, spain. i hated going back to their hometown. 

what is a bloodline if not an invisible red string tying you from past to future? one that laces around your throat and constricts, ever so slightly, a feeling of pressure you can never shake away. 


they say there's still so much of the world they haven't explored. haven't seen the rest of china, ever since dad came to the us at 23 w only 100 in his backpocket. can you imagine seeing the other side of the world before you've explored your own backyard? 
	-- my dad had few vacation days, and i hated going back to china -- he always spent it on cool experiences for me, dubai, italy, spain, all the places western media paints ideally

## ambition 
what is your career-defining moment? 
my friend just started a new job and im living for his excitement vicariously. he's asked me about the times where i've felt on top of the world.
i realize that my ambition can be boiled down to chasing down that *it moment*. the glory shot that would define my photography career -- the chapbook that 
this is not to say im chasing one hit wonders --ooo just that all of withering, dilly dallying, is worth it if it builds up to 

