---
title: "2025-11-04"
---

havent written to myself in a while
### Log 
---
generally want to be better about
1) enunciation
2) articulating thoughts
3) pace
4) dealing with complexity
5) taking notes
6) driving outcomes

re-evaluate what i want out of my writing
- detach myself from outcomes
- revert to writing for the sake of writing regardless of what may come
- revert to writing as a means of self
-> what should i tangibly write about?
this sunday i should commit to a piece, no matter what it is, as reflection / furthering my thoughts 
and either iron out my video / read a book 
i want to write about something interesting outside of general abstract feels
revisit [[content/april topics to write about|april topics to write about]]
- november things to write about would look like:
	- setting as a character - new york is alive 
	- marathon day, halloween
	- a pattern language 
		- recurring patterns
		- the kids by south street who hold onto each other
	- how to design for aliveness
	- everyoen in nyc feels like a main character bc by virtue of the city you are in the main character
- crisis of narration
	- storyselling vs storytelling
	- tik tok hustle culture
		- everything is a trend
	- main character syndrome 
	- embrace the cringe vs authenticity
	- social media has become just media
	- in ny writing became performative/part of my identity
- the tyranny of the physical
	- what happens when you apply real engineering constraints to theoretical musings? 
		- gpus break, data centers overheat, maintenance exists 
		- physical reliability shapes ai development 
	- maintenances and system
		- hidden dependenies, failure omdes, reality 
		- systems dont fail gracefully
- supercomputing, a history 
- uncertainty principle
- rhythm . stye 
- aws outage
	- https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/1ok4gx9/a_single_point_of_failure_triggered_the_amazon/ 
	- https://www.reddit.com/r/ExperiencedDevs/comments/1oc6jer/why_was_aws_outage_so_devastating/ 
	- https://gadallon.substack.com/p/cloud-crash-and-factory-fire-twin 
have i been passing too much of my cognitive load into cursor?


in sf there are hills that stretch beyond your sense of vision - the view of mission reveals the city but the skyline is disappointing - the streets are wide and foreign here

Warm November sun is foreign to my skin

### Quotes:
“Many explorers are likely to miss that proverbial passage of sunlight through the trees. They look up the trail to see what’s ahead even when they know what’s ahead because they just looked a second before. They are here, but yet not here. They reject the here, and are unhappy with it, and want to be further up the trail. But when they get there, they will be just as unhappy because then IT will be “here”. What they are looking for and want is actually all around them, but they don’t want that because it IS all around them. Every step is an effort both physically and spiritually, because they imagine their goal to be external and distant.” []()
https://pbs.twimg.com/media/G4wJkm_XcAADB5e?format=jpg&name=medium