---
title: "2025-04-28"
---

### We welcome expressions of interest to join in developing the philosophy-to-code pipeline at HAI Lab full time, both to support existing projects and to propose new projects in the spirit of our mission. 

We periodically publish submission deadlines for expressions of interest for a given period. The next submission deadline will be published shortly. We are generally able to consider members to join for periods ranging from 90 days to a year or more. We onboard new members throughout the year. Depending on the nature of the proposed project, hybrid/remote arrangements are possible.

HAI Lab will consider academics, researchers, and technologists, and in some cases people from other fields including the arts, strictly on the basis of demonstrated skill, track record, and fit with the HAI Lab research mission. We look for outstanding individuals with world-class potential, but we do not require a graduate degree. For all these categories of potential members, the [Cosmos Institute](https://cosmos-institute.org/) has kindly agreed to consider candidates for a Cosmos Fellowship, following an application calendar that matches our deadlines for expressions of interest. Applications for a Cosmos Fellowship have to be made separately with the [Cosmos Institute](https://cosmos-institute.org/). Prospective Post-doctoral researchers are additionally encouraged to apply for funding from funding bodies including [UKRI](https://www.ukri.org/apply-for-funding/) and the [British Academy](https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/funding/postdoctoral-fellowships/) and similar funding bodies.

HAI Lab will also consider more informal requests for part-time collaboration from members of other units in the University of Oxford, who should email [aiethics-hailab@philosophy.ox.ac.uk](mailto:aiethics-hailab@philosophy.ox.ac.uk)

HAI Lab does not consider applications for graduate study directly. Students accepted into any graduate program in the University of Oxford may submit an expression of interest at any time to collaborate on projects, should their home departments permit them to do so.

When available, we periodically advertise short-term opportunities for enrolled Oxford undergraduate and graduate students here, including research assistant roles and opportunities for small grants to support independent human-centered AI projects. Such opportunities will be announced here when available.

very very frustrated by my health insurance outcome


creative technologist
https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/agencywithin/jobs/4705719007?gh_src=e572ded67us


if theyre pushing sat 13 to 
worst case may 16
wanna lift a nfz 

randys told us that the job on 61 is done
amy will prep today - create nfz to block impactful ves in 61
delete / end the general nfz 
let impactless ones go thru 
if we lift the nfz, impactless updates will go thru 
if theres an impact things will go thru
impactful ones, we'll coordinate a work window for either may 19 or may 26
could do a smaller cluster first 

come up w the comms for this 
tag randy and saagar 

we'll kick the ball 
discuss the meeting tmrw to confirm that everyones good - once we get confirmation in meeting tmrw 

* narratives + self truths - your schema guide your actions and your satisfaction with yourself 
* D.A. Wallach
* texture + rigor in investing
	* should i reach out tothis guY? 
	* Depth vs breadth in music 
	* greatest artists still are ganular
* music
	* whiplash
	* jazz
	* pauses
	* rigor
 **Small, adaptable teams of generalists, equipped with modern AI, are well-suited to solve the often unglamorous, industry-specific problems that others miss**.

* can you dress in a way that says nothing clear? 
	* no semiotics? 
	* **Jackson:** Well, this reminds me a little bit of when authentic... Sometime in the, the early 2010s, authenticity itself became an aesthetic, when that really broke all the rules. [laughs] 'Cause then it's like, oh wait, what even, what it, what it, what is... But yeah, that's, it's like, what's the vanilla ice cream? And even, yeah, vanilla's maybe a n- an imperfect metaphor, but...
* **D.A.:** Well, I'm only trying to say things if I have what I feel is, like, an original thought. You know, so this, like, zero-toll medicine thing, like, I was thinking about that for months and trying to kinda clarify it in my head. And then I thought, okay, I haven't heard this before. So I thought, okay, this is worth writing. But when I'm tempted to, you know, write a screed about the tariffs-

**Jackson:** By the way, this won't matter in a week. Yeah, yeah.

**D.A.:** It's just totally duplicative-

**Jackson:** That's a great point

[Customer Support and Engagement](https://modern-ton-234.notion.site/Customer-Support-and-Engagement-1a5ca4f355ac80139bb5f6eca888d92e)
[Customer Support and Engagement](https://modern-ton-234.notion.site/Customer-Support-and-Engagement-1a5ca4f355ac80139bb5f6eca888d92e)
[About SPACES](https://spaces.is/about) 