---
title: "2025-04-03"
---

random idea:
* one ingredient, one week
	* one drink
	* one baked good 
	* one meal?
		* one writing club
* scale ai application
	* When thinking about my career, it is important to consider my compulsion. Throughout college I've admired Scale AI's founder Alexandr Wang's audacity and conviction in creating impact. 
	* 
	* admiring Scale AI's founder 

I want to be part of Scale because I believe in the company's critical role in building AI's future. AI is nothing without its data - and while many focus on the algorithms and compute, Scale is uniquely positioned as "the data foundry serving almost every major LLM effort." 

With technology verging on an inflection point, Scale's perfectly positioned to create what Wang describes in an interview as "near infinite impact" - where even small improvements ripple across countless future model invocations. My experience translating complex technical requirements into operational strategies for AI infrastructure directly aligns with Scale's need to "lay down the tracks before the freight train of AI comes rolling through."

The Strategic Projects Lead role perfectly combines my operational expertise with my passion for high-visibility, high-impact work. Having built systems supporting the latest OpenAI models, I've faced the high stakes and pressure that come with life-defining work. In moving to Scale I commit to being part of an organization that, as Wang describes, values "nimbleness" and adaptation as technology rapidly evolves.