---
title: "2025-08-19"
---

substack ideas:
- what it means to outgrow ppl/places 
- why chosen family matters
- transformation - how we change based on work love and art
- friendship/love & time 


### jersey tomatoes
universal core: 
- ripening as the metaphor for both memory and intimacy
- the ache of something too soon, too late, or perfectly ripe 
	- friends gone too soon 
	- lovers started too soon
- ephemerality of youth & time 
- love is not grand gestures but just someone leaving a piece of fruit 
**opening** 
- sensory memory

**metaphor**
- fruit as intimacy
- emotional armor - pomegranates
- 
**tension**
- ache - fruit that bursts too soon

**resolution**
- love is a willingness to sit thru ones ripening, vulnerability

these days all i think about is june. the sticky of salt down my wrist, sun's wandering eyes. spare words the berries abound on burke-gilman trail & i thirst. pocket gems, how they radiate with desire, beckon of verdant greenery from summer days. so full of themselves, bursting in eagerness to share their immature sweetness. 

summer, she was young, then. persimmons so tender they split themselves.

it is a ephemeral sweetness that no urban jungle garden can cultivate. these days, i get my fruit from whole foods, or maybe instacart delivery. i wonder - were blueberries always this tart? was the weather always this hot? was the sweetness of summer a mere memory? 

nostalgia spikes in summer. 


### ruthie birthday
- cake 
- plates forks spoons
- kahoot 
- LES 
	- 25 min walk 
- alc - 
	- 2 soju 
	- vodka or tequila 
	- shots 
	- 