---
title: "2025-06-29"
---

reflections 

**from gallery:**
medium is the message - really great experience blowing up an image 
what i learned:
- to sustain itself needs some way t omake money
- i need to keep simon on track 
- theres something here: 70 ppl rvsp, ~50 ppl show up, its an easy wa to get people together
- will - persona of someone who has a lot of photogorapher friends who are all older
- more conducive to gathering than others

**from job**
- **will renege scale - if it doesnt feel right it doesnt feel right**
	- feels angsty not being able to jump to anything 
	- it just feels like theres no financial upside anymore
	- you would learn, trial by fire, bc theres so much uncertainty and so much to do 
	- questionable how the prestige will still hold
	- regardless, its a fact itll be 60+ hours of ambiguity where i dont know where my efforts will be going towards - itl just be towarsd defense 
	- i have to just commit to this decision 
	- i have to trust that joining scale is not an n of 1 experience in NY
	- and that too many people will be leaving 
	- cons of scale culture is constant fire fighting and lack of clear direction
	- you have to convince yourself of this:
		- every talent recruiter is warning against joining scale bc it feels like a pity hire
		- every scale person is putting out feelers for jobs atm
		- genai is dead and the only potential opportunity is defense which could flop
		- so many other jobs could be better than scale 
		- accelerates scale from services to application layer
	- bear case for scale: 
		- 

planning:
* thru interview loop & rejected
	* ramp 
	* etched
	* tandem
	* windsurf
- conversations (ghosted):
	- fal.ai
	- fireworks
	- baseten
- opens (not right time)
	- thread ai 
	- suno
* potentials
	* chalk
	* moment
- rejected at resume screen:
	- runway
	- baseten
	- tennr
- reached out, ghosted:
	- together ai 
	- hume
- accepted: 
	- scale

potential startups left:
* coreweave
* arize ai
* merge
* eleven labs
* koodos
* writer
* harvey
* antimetal
* clay
* datacurve ai
* numeral
* hebbia
* gecko
* tabs
[Search all Jobs | LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/search/?currentJobId=4264176770&f_C=76522381&geoId=92000000&origin=COMPANY_PAGE_JOBS_CLUSTER_EXPANSION&originToLandingJobPostings=4264176770%2C4261360845%2C4261196904%2C4241355016%2C4184051541%2C4241047420%2C4261601160%2C4153178181%2C4173379750&refId=OmVZaoOAUGjwQV1kzWfO7Q%3D%3D&trackingId=MkXceIO%2FxrLmH5ReOh3Xqw%3D%3D&trk=d_flagship3_company)



find startups that are 500-1000+ people looking to hire pms

things to do next:
* embrace the chill -- less worrisome to go and apply to jobs randomly
* prioritize side projects


Annie is a TPM with 2 years of experience at Microsoft, scaling AI supercomputing infrastructure for high-stakes customers like OpenAI, and developing copilot tools for healthcare and financial services workflows. She has led cross-functional teams across GTM and engineering, while working closely with customers and making data-driven decisions. 


Annie is a TPM at Microsoft with 2 years of experience, currently managing and scaling supercomputing infrastructure for OpenAI's training workloads in the high-performance computing org. She's previously led customer-facing deployments of copilot tools for healthcare and finance workflows.

Annie is a TPM at Microsoft with 2 years of experience, currently managing and scaling supercomputing infrastructure for OpenAI's training workloads in the high-performance computing org. Prior, she led customer-facing deployments of copilot tools for healthcare and finance workflows as part of Microsoft AI’s initial rollout.


Hey Aman! Been following your work on how AI is revolutionizing the PMs automate our own workflows and have been applying it to my own day job. I saw your posting for a TPM and think I would be a great fit - I've led 0->1 deployments of copilots and built tools to enable observability for complex infrastructure problems for devs. The opportunity to lean in in my data science background and prototype tools for evals, as well connect with the larger AI/ML space,

Big fan of your work - especially how you’re thinking about AI transforming the PM role. I’ve been applying similar ideas in my current role, building copilots and internal tools to improve observability for complex infra.

I’ve also appreciated Arize’s ML readings; evals feel like table-stakes for production-grade AI. Just applied for the TPM role and I’m excited by the chance to go deeper - both in tooling and the AI/ML community. Would love to explore if there’s a mutual fit.