---
title: "2026-01-20"
---

### Stray thoughts
- thinking about: 
	- what makes someone destined for greatness? 
	- its an inner compulsion 
	- still can come later in life 
- my job is one of tose things where maybe you're not measured by the code itself
	- but the outcomes the code enables 
	- eg cluster bring up
		- how many clusters
	- eg hardware health 
		- how do you keep health reliable
- health/lifestyle improvements
	- using oura ring 
	- 

```markdown
date: 2026-01-20
title: 2026-01-20 todo
tags: 
   - productivity 
```
### P0 
- [x] Draft 1 of azure retro 
- [ ] Draft 1 of entropy 
### P1
- [ ] Buy necessities
	- [ ] soap 
	- [ ] towel 
	- [x] bath mat
### P2
- [ ] X
- [ ] Y

9962615374

resurfaced from 
[[content/2025-05-05]]

"Just as an elephant has to eat hundreds of pounds of food per day just to sustain itself, giant companies need thousands of employees just to sustain their internal processes. Innovation and research require more “food” on top of that; in principle, you could have some employees work on sustaining and some employees work on innovating, but in practice, both get smeared across all employees to varying degrees. As a result, the ratio of productive-to-bureaucratic work for any given person goes down as the company gets larger. There are some lucky few who get to focus most on productive tasks and spend less time in handshake-style meetings, but those positions aren’t the norm and take a long time to earn."

I once spoke to a real architect (who designs buildings) who described his job as gathering requirements from the people who will use a building, understanding external constraints governing the building, and then designing something that will work based on that. That’s surprisingly similar to what I’ve done as a system architect. The big difference is that I design _computer infrastructure_ instead of _building infrastructure_.

resurfaced from [[content/March 2025 Reflection]]
It favors short snappy pieces on universal feelings (love/friendship/intimacy) and less so on deep dives into my own intellectual curiosities -- at least in the niche I'm in. There are goals I have for my writing that I believe swell beyond the constraints of a newsletter: cultural anecdotes reminiscent of lit mags, deep dives into rabbitholes on infrastructure/urbanism, interactive websites for "scrollytelling."



#### thinking
rlly great aws event
great hang w e 
