---
title: "bell labs"
---

[From Bell Labs to Lumon Industries: The Building That Brings ‘Severance’ to Life - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/07/realestate/severance-lumon-industries-building-bell-labs.html)
is there a book / essay about environments that best support scientific discovery? Not about specifically bell labs, cavendish, xerox parc, los alamos - but why these places were so productive?
the pitch i like to give cold outreachs is that i grew up in the silicon valley of the east. 
* Bell Labs was highly productive due to a unique combination of factors, including a well-run organization, strong management, and a culture that valued scientific work.
* The empirical observation of mine is that my east coast peers have optimized for math + science hard skills, whereas west coast is an emphasis on coding + 
> 'In the midst of Shannon’s career, some lawyers in the patent department at Bell Labs decided to study whether there was an organizing principle that could explain why certain individuals at the Labs were more productive than others. They discerned only one common thread: Workers with the most patents often shared lunch or breakfast with a Bell Labs electrical engineer named Harry Nyquist. It wasn’t the case that Nyquist gave them specific ideas. Rather, as one scientist recalled, “he drew people out, got them thinking.” More than anything, Nyquist asked good questions.'

Source:
* [The Dark Side Of Innovation | Bell Labs Innovation | Gridium](https://gridium.com/dark-side-of-innovation/)
	* But if they remember it all or think about it, they think about Bell Labs because there were a lot of really remarkable innovations that came out from Bell Labs: the transistor, satellite transmission, the Unix operating system, information theory, all sorts of Nobel prizes went to people working in Bell Labs. But Americans who used telephones, like our grandparents and parents and even me when I was little, really didn’t touch Bell Labs. What we touched were phones and service provided by a local operating company and long distance, a term that are no longer in use…
	* is that only about 1-2%, 1 ½% of the total employees of the entire Bell System were working in Bell Labs, were doing the “sexy stuff”, were doing the Nobel Prize-winning stuff, about 1%. The other 98-99% were either in the manufacturing branch of the Bell system, it’s a company called Western Electric, hundreds of thousands of people.
	* They were remembered as the heroes, but they’re the 1%. The system’s value, the significance for those of us who needed to talk to our parents, or grandma or call for an ambulance or a doctor’s appointment, we knew that phone would work when we picked it up because of the Bell Systems excellent practices of maintenance and reliability and this program of standardization that was so comprehensive. I think nobody listening to this would even believe the things that they standardized.
	* So, I heard this from my boss who used to work at Bell Labs about 20 years back. Bell labs had way too much money because they had the monopoly on communications back in the day. That's why their research portfolio was so wide and deep. With trying to increase market competition, that was broken down which significantly impacted their research budget also. The current corporate research is really money and product driven because niches have already been created to a large extent. If you want to look at fundamental or crazy research, go to defense Labs, national Labs, or industry-academia collaborations like imec (belgium), leti (france) in europe. Pretty sure most countries would have some program like this going on.
Sources:
* [The Idea Factory: Bell Labs and the Great Age of American Innovation](https://s3.amazonaws.com/arena-attachments/1606731/a41cb3f6903d5ace340477d62a8bbf73.pdf?1516213556)
	* Others, such as Shannon, are familiar to those within a certain area of interest (in Shannon’s case, mathematics and artificial intelligence) while remaining largely unknown to the general public. Pierce, a nearly forgotten figure, was the father of satellite communications and an instigator of more ideas than can be properly accounted for here. Kelly, Fisk, and Baker were presidents of the Labs, and served as stewards during the institution’s golden age. A
	* “an institute of creative technology.”
	* Bill Gates once said of the invention of the transistor, “My first stop on any time-travel expedition would be Bell Labs in December 1947.”1