---
title: "friendship reflection june 2025"
---

- **triadic closure** or **squad integration is key.** +1 that 1:1 friendships dont work unless theres a group-wise chemistry that reinforces the connection.
	- i want to build the nitin/annie/justin energy with annie/lo/justin! i think our trio w nitin gets along for a reason that'll be very different than our trio with lo, and i want to prioritize getting closer to lo. the goal would be to hang w her 1:1:1 the same way you do w nitin, and see if i can get to a 1:1 friendship. out of the fan-fangs squad this is the relationship that makes the most sense for me to invest in ! 
- *there is no ideal group* and i think what's special about fan-fangs is we can just do things - like i can't imagine getting the microsoft/rave squad together to something as casual as hang around your apt. completely right that this is not precisely my tribe - i havent initiated any hangs and that's a subconscious result of not completely having ownership of my own palce in the squad. i dont really initiate within the microsoft/rave squad either, however, and i think my sweet spot for proactivity is either 1) intimate 1:1 hangs 2) larger 6+ interest-based gatherings. anywhere in between arrives at this scheduling problem / lack of complete fit with the group of 4-5 that frankly demotivates me lol. in a way i also easily recede into comfortable disassociation during squad hangs (aka go nonverbal) which is prob just a social tic of mine
- closure on the squad:
	- my favorite moments of squad were post-event debriefs (remember hinge party?) andour movie nights (wong kar wai and tampopo). or also big meals where a big group make sense. ideal state would be these touchpoints - sharing some experience together, some banter and bits. i dont think we need to force ourselves into keeping the gc alive - from my pov there's never rlly anything id update that gc over ours w mahesh / you directly. 
	- i idolize a squad but based on what i said in earlier bullet, not sure if a squad is sustainable for me !! the whole ethos of a squad is that you are together for no real reason other than you are choosing to be, which means it can unravel at any moment. and truthfully i dont quite vibe w anyone my age atm - even tho i vibed w kristie on a 1:1 level, our group w shirling/carolyn ultimately felt shallow bc we spent most of it talking about relationships. also my humor much more aligns w your friends. feeling like a special snowflake out here LOL
	- i do care about intentional groups atm - writing club isnt necessarily a squad yet but there is a reason for people to come back together, but i dont care about making this into a friend group bc i find myself more serious about writing than most ppl there lol. 
	- ive already been weaning off house parties but i think its fair to say im anti house party unless im ready to get pretty tipsy LOL. i do want to get closer to the emily/cmu squad - i realized from the house party there's a general funny head-assery that makes their house parties fun. but there's no need to treat this as a source of new connections bc its just set up for failure.
	- on deepening nodes - expressed this earlier w lo but i do want to get closer to her !! it will help for u to facilitate since i think we are both on the shier side. jenny is someone who i aspirationally want to grow closer (i know nitin REALLY wants to be friends w her) but i also think jenny <> nitin would get along better interpersonally than me and her - i just am not feisty nor opinionated enough for regular banter LOL but we rlly shine in the more vulnerable convos. 
* in general - very happy & satisfied with fan-fangs, it also feels like its something that im ok with being transitory. there's lots of thoughts on friendship here: their beauty is you enter this unspoken agreement without any concrete reason actually anchoring you, other than a desire to stay within the friendship. which also means you don't need a specific reason to slip away! it's just the general eb and flow of things.