---
title: "justin notes on house parties"
---

I regularly oscillate between "I hate house parties" and "house parties are the sandbox of life" 

  

What is crazy is that my outlook on house parties feels so complex, because it's a freaking house party. It's because house parties are just an analogy or metaphor for any social function where there are strangers. The NextView event was a house party. And house parties always make me feel some type of way, no matter what. The reason is because these are environments where I feel like I do not have perfect control, either over myself or over others. I felt viscerally emotional today when Mahesh and I were at this house party, trying to navigate this physical-social space, optimizing for better conversations. And for me, personally, trying to find a girl for Mahesh to talk to. Mahesh, I'm not kidding that this was #1 on my mind. I am an obsessive person, and tonight that was my obsession lol - I took that mission way too seriously and I am glad we fulfilled it. 

  

There is an entire separate conversation to be had about optimizing and being too intentional to a fault. That is not the purpose of this email, yet it is the inspiration behind it. The theme of this email is this concept of "randomness vs control." I think I have finally unpacked why "house parties" have haunted me since I first became too socially self-aware in middle school. Because I am an optimizer, and yet, the most frustrating fate for an optimizer is not having perfect control. 

  
**
For example, I always feel such intense emotions about meeting new people and having conversation and expressing yourself. I think it's because of that lack of control - I take things personally, I judge people personally, everything, for some reason, feels very personal when it comes to strangers. Because of this idea of "randomness." Talking to random people at a house party is a perfect example of randomness at work. I contrast that with movie night, where I know everyone so well that I feel like I can perfectly trade off between relinquishing, or exercising, control. I can choose to not say a word the whole night, because I have so much trust and faith in the vibes. Or, I can take the conversation wherever I want. 

  

A house party is different, because of all of the things like friction and discomfort and the unknown. You can get stuck in a conversation and not feel empowered to leave. You can see a cute girl and not talk to her. You can talk to someone and be frustrated about how they act. These things have all happened to me an infinite number of times, and for whatever reason (my autism), they evoke such intense feelings. It is that randomness and control, or lack thereof, that is so representative of LIFE. I feel so empowered when I feel in control, at a house party where I strike up a good conversation with the right person and take it in a direction that I want. I feel so frustrated when that doesn't happen. And forget house parties again (metaphor!), because this happens all throughout life. And we cannot reject the ideas of randomness and control, because the reality is, especially with an expanded mindset about LIFE - the thing you can poke at and it pokes back. You can connect with a total stranger and that conversation can turn into something or someone that changes your life. That is crazy. 

  

Yet, I've realized two things: 

1. I am even more critical now - in the house party analogy, is this a good or bad conversation, is the person worth talking to, etc. I have always been this way, as you guys know, but I feel like ironically, at 26, this is the most critical I have been. Now, I think I'm also better at managing that criticality - e.g. there are things where I just don't really care anymore. But, what I mean is that when it comes to something that I can and choose to be critical about, this is the most aware I have ever been. Maybe being critical is just a skill. I don't think of this as strictly good or bad. Certainly, I know I can be super annoying when I am hyper-critical. But also, we play games where we know being critical, and excellent, and discerning, and etc. can yield unbounded returns. Maybe not very useful at a house party, but when I think about why I judge someone so hard for being x, y, and z in a conversation - it makes me think that I am so attuned to that thing because it is SO important to me, and I should just be honest about that.  

2. Being in control is undeniably important to me, which I have never really articulated to myself until Lo asked me the first time we spent intimate time at this apartment when Mahesh walked out in his boxers, if I feel like I need to be in control. The answer was so instinctive to me. It is crazy how important this is and yet I haven't really introspected about it. It is probably the single source of my frustration about everything in the world and people. And also influential to how my principles and investments have developed over the years - in the realms of curation, intentionality, and agency. Down to the little things like making group chats and spaces like movie night where I know that y'all will show up and listen to my preferences. To career and success, where you feel like you have power over outcomes. And of course, being in a relationship, the social contract where you have the most control over, more than probably any friend and even family. It is crazy how important that is to me. And this is the most honest with myself I have been about that. I would like to build on top of this language and introspection and for you guys to know that about me too, which was probably obvious the whole time. 

  

This is such a hodgepodge of random, exhausted thoughts, but the reason I felt compelled to spend the extra 40 minutes tonight writing this, against my better judgment, is because I am an impulsive person and I want to lean into that. You can just do things and I want to do more things. Which means when I want to write an email I'm going to write an email. And when I don't want to write a weekly newsletter, I will just not write that weekly newsletter. Or tell anyone about it. As long as I am being true to myself (#staytrue) and recognize that there are commitments and actions that matter. I think what feels more compelling to me right now is creating a space and the norms to share more intimate and deeper thoughts with people who really get it. My goal is to lean more into myself and become the most "me" version of myself. And I suspect that oversharing will continue to be a part of that, both because "who I am" also encompasses my relationships with you guys, the friends who get it, because of this "intersectional lives" principle, as long as I'm not being too overbearing. And because I want to create the space to have deeper conversations with myself and you guys, rather than just texts or the serendipitous time which Mahesh and I will have less of. This is a space to curate but I'd like to start here. We already have such wonderful ingredients and seeds.