---
title: "mit media lab"
---

[Overview ‹ Human Dynamics — MIT Media Lab](https://www.media.mit.edu/groups/human-dynamics/overview/)
[Overview ‹ Future Sketches — MIT Media Lab](https://www.media.mit.edu/groups/future-sketches/overview/)
[Overview ‹ Affective Computing — MIT Media Lab](https://www.media.mit.edu/groups/affective-computing/overview/)
The AI community is almost solely focused on reaching AGI and optimizing models to make them more accurate, efficient, equitable and safe. But few researchers are asking how we can optimize the design of AI for people? While AI offers great potential to improve the human experience, its pervasive use may simultaneously lead to negative human outcomes such as overreliance and misplaced trust, loss of understanding, agency and skills, misinformation and manipulation, privacy erosion, social isolation, and unhealthy attachments. The symposium will debate what human outcomes we may want to optimize for, issues such as human agency, enlightenment, meaning, independence, understanding, and connectedness, and what approaches and methods may support them.
 Our primary motivations are to help people who are not flourishing or at risk of not flourishing.  Our projects are diverse: from finding new ways to forecast and  prevent depression; to inventing new solutions to help exceptional people who face communication, motivation, and emotion regulation challenges; to enabling robots and **computers to respond intelligently to natural human emotional feedback**; to enabling people to have better awareness of their own health and wellbeing; to giving people better control and protection over their most sensitive, private, personal data. Some of our work focuses on making contributions to basic theory and science, including new improvements to machine learning algorithms, while other projects focus on advancing research outside the lab, with applications aimed at improving the lives of individuals in their everyday environments.
 The Future Sketches group explores software as a medium for art and design, as well as how toolkits and pedagogical approaches can help inform a new generation of computational craft. In our work and courses we focus on computational sketches, often engaging with the past, as a way of suggesting different possible futures. In addition, we are focused on tools for creative coding, both in tools that currently exist and designing, building, and supporting new tools for computational artistic expression. Today's tools help shape tomorrow’s art. Current research explores generative form, machine learning, and augmented reality with a specific focus on how we can understand the essence of these technologies and use them in unexpected and poetic ways.
 The Human Dynamics group uses the tools of computational social science to ask how we can better organize society, government, and companies.  Our projects have already demonstrated the potential to dramatically improve rates of innovation and  opportunity within cities,  companies, and even entire nations.