---
title: "systems <> networks <> infra"
---

Next, take a moment to compare concepts of system and infrastructure. Imagine these as categories by which the world is made actionable. A system organizes and enables process control, particularly for input and output flows, usually by means of closed feedback loops, with an emphasis on its own stability and self-regulation. At least that’s where engineering schools begin. A system tends to be designed, engineered, owned, and operated by some particular group, usually a private company and often quite profitable. By contrast, an infrastructure succeeds at enabling activities, even some greater good, outside its ownership, models, or process control. An infrastructure might never become a money-maker itself, but it enables others. Indeed some larger economy might falter without it. To go on, infrastructures are by definition embedded (“infra” means below), not only in streets but also in institutions. It is difficult to think about infrastructures without emphasis on the organizational contexts from which they arise. Infrastructures tend to be layered into social arrangements, protocols of practices, and also onto one another. That is very difficult to engineer from outside, from above, or in isolation.

This distinction of systems and infrastructures helps disambiguate another closely related category: networks. If it helps to think of system as an engineered process how something happens, and infrastructure as a built investment in where it happens, then a network is what happens. For instance a network can emerge as a set of exchanges, whether in data, goods, or social relations. Whereas a network is constantly reconfigurable, and a system gets periodic updates, that makes an infrastructure the most fixed of the three, and thus all the more important to design, plan, and negotiate ahead as a social project.

