---
title: "tall dead trees"
---

#thinkpiece 
by Humphrey Obuobi

https://joinreboot.org/p/tall-dead-trees 

Despite being public infrastructure, telephone poles are generally owned by private utility companies. The same public-private relationship that Morse pioneered still holds to this day throughout the United States: every place has a set of corporate owners (Pacific Gas & Electric in Northern California, Consolidated Edison in NYC) that operate according to regulations set by state and federal government authorities. Just about no one is saying that we should have community control over power poles, either, as there’s a lot of risk and technical expertise involved in coaxing lightning into a wire. But so far, the communitarian uses of the poles are rarely recognized by their formal owners. Neither government nor corporation seems interested in exploring how the poles could be used to support communication within the neighborhoods they are planted in.

Instead, we have all sorts of regulations that discourage any attachments to the pole. Even posting paper flyers isn’t technically legal in many places; most city governments have ordinances that outright prohibit posting signs on utility poles and lampposts, citing “aesthetics” and “obstruction” as their primary reasons. In the Bay Area, Berkeley and San Francisco’s laws explicitly recognize the importance of the poles as a forum for communication, but place significant restrictions on the form, content, and longevity of any posted signs. Utility companies, on the other hand, generally consider foreign fixtures on the poles a threat to utility workers and the consistency of their service. To their credit, PG&E does have a legal process for attaching devices to their poles through “pole licensing agreements,” but it’s mostly designed for other corporate telecom providers rather than community-run projects. While none of this seems to deter your average sign-poster, it definitely has a chilling effect on more ambitious and experimental projects.

When they do show an interest in street life, it’s usually for surveillance. The fact that telephone poles (along with street lamps, traffic light poles, and other infrastructure) are so commonly found on the street makes them a great place to place eyes and ears. Enterprising police departments have become fond of using these to document the street, though not with the intention of sharing everything they see with people on the ground. In response, corporations like Flock Safety have emerged to place automated license plate readers and other cameras in neighborhoods throughout the country, making the questionable claim that they can “eliminate crime.”

This then sparks the first major conflict on the poles: community protest against surveillance technologies deployed for state and capital interest. Progressive activists across the country have often protested against ShotSpotter (a gunshot detection device widely deployed throughout the country), saying that the devices draw unnecessary police presence into already over-surveilled and underserved neighborhoods. Through their organizing efforts, city administrations in Chicago, Durham, and other places eventually eventually retracted their ShotSpotter contracts. Other communities have chosen more “direct” forms of protest against their cities’ surveillance infrastructure; at various times in the last decade or two, rebels led by the mysterious “Captain Gasto” have literally shot down speed cameras that they see as an unfair assault on their “rights as motorists.”

==Mesh networks – self-installed and interconnected routers installed throughout a given area – show us how far we can push the idea of “public communications infrastructure.” They’ve often been initiated by a few technology-savvy folks (like gamers, radio enthusiasts, or bored software engineers) and over time, a healthy global community of people who care about providing low-cost, resilient internet connections to their neighborhoods has emerged==. Guifi.net started with a single person installing nodes on existing telephone poles and church steeples, and it gradually grew to include tens of thousands of nodes covering much of Catalonia. These projects are not strangers to their own subversive nature, either; they often call out the gaps that telecom companies have left behind, and position their work as an alternative grounded in common ownership. Some networks even operate as a place-based “intranet,” supporting an exchange of local information, art, and chat rooms specific to that place.

The unfortunate reality is that these community-based experiments with telephone poles are the exception rather than the rule. Whether or not you believe these little attachments are actually a danger or an aesthetic abomination, the threat of enforcement gives folks plenty of pause about placing their own art or devices on what is ironically considered private property.

In the meantime, there’s an established practice of “tactical urbanism,” a term to describe grassroots attempts to modify streets and sidewalks without asking for permission from the powers that be. It goes beyond just chalking up a sidewalk or posting a flyer; in general, guerilla urbanism projects are serious attempts to change the flow of people, traffic, and resources for the collective’s benefit. They typically respond to a clear need in a community, such as a missing crosswalk at a busy intersection or an unprotected bike lane. These efforts reflect the belief that people living in community with one another should feel empowered to create their own solutions to the challenges they collectively face (a “right to the city,” as sociologist Henri Lefebvre would say.)

These projects redirect the power of the internet and other network technologies back towards local communities – a practice that thrived in earlier days of the internet, but has long been left by the wayside and neglected by dominant social media companies. To the people that run them, the pole (and other public infrastructure, for that matter) is a canvas that can and should be reclaimed for these communitarian purposes, regardless of what the telecom companies and city departments say. Regardless of their exact medium, it is refreshing and inspiring to see these people push the boundaries of hyperlocal media.



