---
title: "Yelp and how it shapes a community"
---

People flock to review sites like Yelp to discover the trendiest & best restaurants in their area—but how do the standards differ for different cuisines? A Tik Tok theory went viral for claiming that the best Chinese restaurants are rated 3.5 stars on Yelp ([https://www.buzzfeed.com/christopherhudspeth/tiktok-says-the-best-chinese-food-yelp-3-5-stars](https://www.buzzfeed.com/christopherhudspeth/tiktok-says-the-best-chinese-food-yelp-3-5-stars)). Do Yelp reviews reflect stereotypes about certain cuisines — e.g. that “authentic” “ethnic” food should be “exotic?” Do they use certain words more frequently with specific cuisines—e.g. “Too spicy” with Thai restaurants? How do expectations of the average Yelp diner—college-educated, white, affluent—clash with the traditional expectations of cultural foods? Why are there so many Asian fusion restaurants in NYC ([https://stuffwhitepeoplelike.com/2008/01/31/45-asian-fusion-food/)](https://stuffwhitepeoplelike.com/2008/01/31/45-asian-fusion-food/))?? Is searching for “authenticity” liberating or stifling for restaurants? This essay explores the different expectations for different cuisines on the food scene in different neighborhoods in NYC—from mainstream ones like East Village to micro ethnic-neighborhoods in Washington Heights. My hypothesis is that there’s a relationship between the neighborhoods getting gentrified and the new “hip” fusion restaurants being opened. I want to explore how the demographics (racial makeup, level of college-educated residents, average household income) change in neighborhoods as the number of well-rated restaurants on Yelp increase.



I’m a big foodie and an avid Yelp user—but I’ve been increasingly disillusioned by the value that the reviews provide—are they just relying on hype? How can we evaluate food writing as we consider bigger societal issues, from racism to identity politics? As a Chinese-American myself, I’m also skeptical of how reviews describe Chinese restaurants—my family is used to quick-yet-snappy service at these establishments, which varies from the average standards for service. Finally, as someone fascinated, enamored, and frustrated by the NYC food scene, I want to dive deep: explore how the rapid development of fusion restaurants reflects consumer biases and how it manifests in changes in the people who live in the neighborhood. I’m intrigued by studies on the “Whole Foods” effect and how “white people’s omnivorous tastes and economic advantage position them to colonize the tastes and places historically occupied by low-income people and people of color” (Sociology professor Joshua Sbicca, [https://medium.com/@daliakramirez/the-whole-foods-effect-foodie-culture-and-culinary-gentrification-acaf7ebbba49](https://medium.com/@daliakramirez/the-whole-foods-effect-foodie-culture-and-culinary-gentrification-acaf7ebbba49)). In walks around Williamsburg with my sister (a former resident) she complains about the new Sweetgreen and Whole Foods moving in and crowding out local bodegas and mom-and-pop shops—I want to see if there’s a similar effect after new flashy restaurants that cater to a foodie’s palette.

a search for "authenticity": how yelp reviews reinforce stereotypes about “ethnic” cuisines & gentrify neighborhoods

1) How is the "crowd-sourced taste" layer of user apps (e.g. Beli, Yelp, Tik Tok) affecting urban development and the way people move around a place? Have we lost the joy of "flaneur" with our task/hype driven agendas? How can we encourage a mindful consumption/exploration that uses technology to enhance our experience, not just accelerate it? 

2) What's the future of micro-mobility in cities? This project examines public transportation in different cities, examining bike-sharing and scooter-sharing data and how it affects the lifestyles of different people—males, females, commuters, students, etc—and how success of these services depend on these demographics. It also shows how city infrastructure evolves to support bikes—e.g. the bike lanes & space for bikers in Copenhagen vs New York City. As a tangent, this project could explore how men vs women navigate a city, as research shows men and women have different needs for public transportation. How can we use technology to design a city that is more accessible for females? 

For these I want to design some sort of salon/discourse brunch hybrid: I went to a couple in NYC and while they were great, I love the idea of going in with a specific topic to discuss. Documenting the prcoess and adding interactive elements (writing prompts, interactions) as we try to try out ideas. Like a hackathon but for thinking?  
1) [https://datapopalliance.org/gender-data-series-mobility-accessibility-and-the-gender-data-gap-in-urban-transportation-planning/](https://datapopalliance.org/gender-data-series-mobility-accessibility-and-the-gender-data-gap-in-urban-transportation-planning/)).