---
title: "11-7-25 log"
---

a month ago i would see no one during the work day and everyone afterwards. today i see everyone during the work day and no one afterwards. 

i am surprisingly normalized to the change that has shocked my system as of late. i am still a ten minute walk to a wholefoods, but this one involves a hill, as per the name *portrero hill*. i run at night and there's nothingness.

it is abundantly clear that i am fulfilled by filling up my day, and that the previous mode of dilly dallying did not do me well. it's meme but switching from teams to slack and microsoft surface to mac has actually 10x'ed my productivity. and going from endless time to constraints has forced me to efficiently cull my list of impending texts.

today i chatted with someone at microsoft who took over my job and its abundantly clear why my previous performance had stood out. people are just not used to people actually giving a sh!t about the job, and moving with the intellectual humility to understand.

i got a $7 coffee at linea today. the happy-go-lucky dude in front of me bought his coffee and tipped another $3, all while introducing himself to the barista. i think he was flirting. i think the dog is +10 aura here. my inner sugar fiend yearned for the pastries locked behind the box, but somehow the fruit flies had broke their way in.

i haven't reflected, in a while. my writing is not consummate to how much change has occurred. i work at openai. the largest startup in the world, the arguably best job a young gun could get. i'm a little desensitized. n is right, i hold myself to absurdly high standards, consumed by how i could be better. 

there's a lot more empty spaces now, a little less noise. my life has gone from an endless city to four tidy neat walls. i hope i can fill it back with the things i love - writing, doodling, videoing, whatever - with a little less noise. 

it's cool how you can just tell people, *hey i have this problem* or *i need to do this thing,* and people generally are on board and will do it. like i mentioned to someone i want to unify some spreadsheets -> he's offered to set up a databricks -> snowflake integration in a day. or that we want to automate a maintenance process for gcp -> script within a day.

i want to be declarative, confident, secure. i want to speak up and interject proactively, rather than wait for the pauses in a conversation to get my point in. i still struggle to speak off the cuff especially in a conflict or convoluted discussion.