---
title: "2025-10-29"
---

maintain the block sequentially
give them for maintenance for 4 hours

networking updates
compute node updates - gpu fw itself - oai is supposed to deply

not confident doing upgrade rolling matters

microsoft will do 
- networking updates
oai will do 
- fw update 

PDX2 is a highlighted
Reno H100 
1) give me duration of downtime 


**

- Problem: lifecycle automation in various states of functioning
    

- Cloud provider count makes things more complicated/error prone. Cloud-specific stuff adds variance. Per-sku (esp gb200/gb300) adds more.
    

- Vendor-agnostic abstractions: seem to be working OK
    
- Vendor-specific labels/properties: need some work. Some common things (e.g. sku/chassis/instance id) could be made common
    
- Need to revisit the release waves to include a variety of vendors early on.
    

- What are we not doing for new CSPs that we should?
    

- Ensuring some form of stable IDs for inventory tracking.
    
- Ensuring we get inventory APIs.
    
- Getting earlier buy-in on maintenance plans/strategies. Understanding process and integrations.
    
- Testing that RMAs work end-to-end. Send a ticket, deallocate the node, get the vendor to confirm it gets received.
    

- clusters/hardware/platform all sharing work in these pieces of automation
    
- Prioritization of key lifecycle steps
    

- P0: boot/joining cluster
    
- P0: reimage
    
- P0: preflights
    

- annotations
    

- P?: autoscaler
    

- Including quota usage and consumption
    

- P?: deallocate
    
- P?: problem detection and triage (for new SKUs esp)
    
- P?: rma
    

- (most basic implementation is dealloc)
    

- P?: vendor-requested maintenance
    

- Other operations
    

- P?: image updates
    
- P?: firmware updates
    




